This paper presents a comprehensive review of the background
literature necessary to understand the current state of geodemographic
research, to identify unresolved questions and issues requiring further
study, and to develop an agenda of priorities for this doctoral thesis.

First, we set geodemographics within the broader
contemporary context of *data science*, *big data*, and *machine
learning*, showing that contrary to some hype-driven claims, such
developments in fact make domain-knowledge and interpretable theory more
important, not less. Next, we introduce geodemographics properly,
offering a definition, a description, and an initial overview of its
development.  We then review the historical antecedents of
geodemographic analysis in more detail: the groundbreaking
visualizations of nineteenth-century urban thematic mapping; the rich
investigative agenda of the early Chicago School's human ecology; and the
quantitative developments of social area analysis and factorial ecology. 
From there, we examine the subsequent critiques and controversies that
have been provoked by geodemographics, finding two principal components
in the criticism of geodemographic analysis which  continue to generate
heated discussion and debate: the ethical dimension of social
surveillance on the one hand, and the ontological dimension of
neighbourhood definition on the other.  Consideration of the first leads
us to appreciate the importance of free and open source geodemographic
classifications, which have now become well-estalished. Consideration of
the second leads us to a survey of the intrinsic problems of spatial
zone design in quantitative geography, and a review of the progress in
addressing those problems. This leads to a survey of literature that
suggest how we might define meaningful basic spatial unit that reflects
the social dynamics of the local neighbourhood. Finally, we 



